In this video, we're going to
discuss how virtual
private networks,
or VPNs, add security
to your network.
When you connect
to the internet,
your internet service
provider receives
your network's requests and
forwards it to the correct
destination server.
But your internet requests
include your private
information.
That means if the traffic
gets intercepted,
someone could potentially
connect your internet activity
with your physical location
and your personal information.
This includes some information
that you want to keep private,
like bank accounts and
credit card numbers.
A virtual private network,
also known as a VPN,
is a network security
service that changes
your public IP address and hides
your virtual location so
that you can keep your data
private when you're
using a public
network like the internet.
VPNs also encrypt
your data as it
travels across the internet
to preserve confidentiality.
A VPN service performs
encapsulation on your
data in transit.
Encapsulation is a
process performed
by a VPN service that protects
your data by wrapping
sensitive data in
other data packets.
Previously, you learned how
the MAC and IP address of
the destination
device is contained
in the header and footer
of a data packet.
This is a security
threat because it shows
the IP and virtual location
of your private network.
You could secure a data
packet by encrypting
it to make sure your information
can't be deciphered,
but then network routers
won't be able to read
the IP and MAC address to
know where to send it to.
This means you won't
be able to connect to
the internet site or the
service that you want.
Encapsulation
solves this problem
while still maintaining
your privacy.
VPN services encrypt
your data packets and
encapsulate them in
other data packets
that the routers can read.
This allows your
network requests
to reach their destination,
but still encrypts
your personal data
so it's unreadable
while in transit.
A VPN also uses an
encrypted tunnel
between your device
and the VPN server.
The encryption is unhackable
without a cryptographic key,
so no one can access your data.
VPN services are
simple and offer
significant protection while
you're on the internet.
With a VPN,
you have the added assurance
that your data is encrypted, and
your IP address and
virtual location are unreadable
to malicious actors.